# ShortcutBuddy

## What is ShortcutBuddy?
ShortcutBuddy is a simple java application that allows you to create and manage keyboard shortcuts for your favorite applications. It is designed to be lightweight and easy to use, making it a great tool for anyone who wants to improve their productivity.
It comes with a preset of default shortcuts for popular applications, but you can also create your own custom shortcuts to suit your needs.
It's a Windows application only, it will not work on Linux or MacOS.

## How to use ShortcutBuddy
- Start the application, it will leave a tray icon in the system tray.
- Hold the `Ctrl` key and ShortcutBuddy will intercept the foreground window and show a popup with the available shortcuts for that application.
- Release the `Ctrl` key and the popup will disappear.
- Hold the `Ctrl` key and press the `.` key to start typing. The shortcuts will be filtered based on the text you type. Press `Esc` key to close the popup.

## How to add your own shortcuts
At the application first run, ShortcutBuddy will create a folder in the user's home directory called `.shortcutbuddy`. Inside this folder, you can create a file called `usershortcuts.json` where you can add your own shortcuts.
Inside the same directory you can also find:
- `shortcuts.json`: The default shortcuts for popular applications. Do not edit this file, it will be overwritten when the application is updated.
- `settings.json`: The application settings. Don't manually edit this file, you can adjust the settings from the application GUI.
- `appimages` folder: The application images.

The `usershortcuts.json` file should be in the following format:
```json
[
  {
    "appName": "idea64.exe",
    "appDescription": "IntelliJ IDEA",
    "shortcuts": [
      {
        "shortcut": "Ctrl+Shift+N",
        "description": "Find file"
      }
    ]
  }
]
```

## How to build the project
To build the project, you need to have Java 21 or higher installed on your machine. You can download the latest version of Java from the [official website](https://www.oracle.com/java/technologies/javase-jdk21-downloads.html).
You also need to have Maven installed on your machine. You can download the latest version of Maven from the [official website](https://maven.apache.org/download.cgi).

### Automatically build the project through `build_dist.bat` script
1. Clone the repository to your local machine.
2. Open a terminal and navigate to the project directory.
3. Run the `build_dist.bat` script. This will build the project and create a `ShortcutBuddy.jar` file in the `target` directory. This will also create a `lib` folder with dependencies.

### Manually build the project
1. Clone the repository to your local machine.
2. Open a terminal and navigate to the project directory.
3. Run the following command to build the project:
   ```bash
   mvn clean package
   ```
   This will create a `ShortcutBuddy.jar` file in the `target` directory.
4. Run the following command to copy the dependencies to the `lib` folder:
   ```bash
   mvn dependency:copy-dependencies -Dmdep.includeScope=runtime -Dmdep.excludeScope=test -DoutputDirectory=target/libs
   ```
   This will create a `lib` folder with all the dependencies.

### Next steps:
Create a folder called `shortcutbuddy` with the following structure:
```
shortcutbuddy
├── ShortcutBuddy.jar
├── lib
│   ├── all libs.jar
├── native
│   ├── JNativeHook.dll
├── run_shortcut.bat
```
1. Copy the `ShortcutBuddy.jar` file from the `target` directory to the `shortcutbuddy` directory.
2. Copy the `lib` folder from the `target` directory to the `shortcutbuddy` directory. This folder contains all the dependencies required to run the application.
3. You need to manually create a `native` folder in the `shortcutbuddy` directory and copy the `JNativeHook.dll` file from `lib\jnativehook*.jar` file. You can find in the path `com\github\kwhat\jnativehook\lib\windows\x86_64\`

## Roadmap
- [ ] Add a GUI to manage user defined shortcuts.
- [ ] Sort the shortcuts by the usage frequency.

### Disclaimer
This is an application provided for free, all features in this app is provided "as is", with no guarantee of completeness, accuracy, timeliness or of the results obtained from the use of this feature.
The copyrighted materials on this app may be used for informational purposes only. All the copyrighted materials are the property of their respective owners. The use of copyrighted materials is not intended to infringe on the rights of the copyright holders.
The application is not affiliated with any of the applications listed in the default shortcuts. The application is not responsible for any damage caused by the use of this application. Use at your own risk.

### License
This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

### Contributing
If you want to contribute to this project, feel free to open an issue or a pull request. Any contributions are welcome!
